Let's talk about memo or useMemo rather.
So, we're gonna go to memo.js here,
and we're going to,
Do the useMemo as example here.
Okay?
So, there's kind of two things going on
here, in this useMemo for example, if you
click on the use memo header, it'll go
from red to green, kind of like you state.
And then we have the, Fibonacci sequence.
Now, I know that's a math thing, you don't
have to care about it, but just suffice to
say that computing the Fibonacci sequence
recursively is computationally expensive,
which is just to say like, it's expensive
to try and compute the Fibonacci sequence.
So, if I keep clicking this,
once it gets to about, I don't know,
30 it starts getting like really slow.
I've noticed that this
is getting pretty slow,
each time I click it's taking longer,
and longer, and longer.
And it's like exponentially gonna grow of
how long it takes to compute Fibonacci
of 40, right?
So again, you don't have to care about
necessarily how it works, but just know
that it's expensive, and we don't want to
re-render it every single time, right.
So, if I come down here to this memo here,
right?
This fib here is very expensive for
us to compute and
if I recompute it every single time,
it's going to make this very, very slow.
So, I wanna make it so that this in fact,
let's just see what it looks
like if I don't do it this way.
We're gonna copy,
we're gonna make that, that way.
I'm just gonna make this Fibonacci.
So, this is gonna get
computed every single time.
So, if I put it like this, and let's
just put this immediately like it's 35.
So, if I get this up to like 40, right?
Well, this is really slow.
Now if I start clicking on this use memo,
notice it takes a really long time for
that to change colors.
So, I click now, wait,
and it changes, right?
That sucks, right?
Just changing a color should
not take that long to do So
that's where use memo
comes into play here.
I can basically say like, hey,
if this number hasn't changed,
do not recompute it, it's very expensive,
I would not like you to do that.
So, if I change this back to this,
we'll just put this at 40.
It's gonna take a while to re-render the
page, cuz obviously that's very expensive.
Now I can just click back and forth on
this, and it's no problem whatsoever
because it's saying, hey, if num doesn't
change, don't touch this, right?
Just give me back the same
number that I gave it last time.
And then as soon as num changes,
as soon as I click plus here again,
then it's gonna go back and
re compute it again.
So, this is a performance optimization.
Again, only use this when you
actually already have a problem,
don't preemptively use this, right?
So, wait until you have a Fibonacci
of 41 problem before you go in and
throw in a used memo,because this just
makes this code less easy to read, right?
If you look at line 14
versus line 15 here,
which of these is easier to understand?
There you go, 14 or 15.
Obviously 14,
it's just more succinct, right?
It obviously just like
it's the Fibonacci number.
Here, I have to look like, okay,
we're memorizing it, you have to pass in
a function, you have to give it like some
sort of values to watch, blah, blah, blah.
But when you're calculating
Fibonacci of 40,
you should definitely
do something like this.
So, let's talk about that for
just a second.
What exactly is going on here?
What useMemo does is basically you give
it a function and you're gonna say,
only run this function,
this one here, whenever this changes.
So, whenever num changes,
then you can go ahead and run useMemo.
But if this was 40 last time, and
it's 40 now the last answer was accurate.
Just go ahead and leave it at that.
And again, you really only use this for
performance.
That's the only reason you would use it.
>> Brian, I don't understand what the
color change has to do with the changing
of the Fibonacci number.
>> Sure.
So,
the question is like what is the number
the color change has to do with
the Fibonacci?
So, every time that I click on useMemo,
when it changes color from red to green,
the state changes, right?
So, whenever the state changes,
it's going to go back, and
it's going to run this
entire function over again.
And if I'm calculating the Fibonacci
sequence every single time,
it's going to recalculate
the Fibonacci every single time.
>> I have a question as well.
So, for the useMemo, it seems like
it's very similar to the use effect.
So, can you put something in the same way
with the use effect where it looks for
like if the number changes, then it runs
it again, because it's re rendering or
is that use effect that if it hits
that number if that number changes,
it re renders the component
that way versus useMemo?
Where it just reruns a function,
am I getting it right?
>> Yeah.
All right, so let me frame the question
in a slightly different way.
Let me see if I answer your
question in the process.
And if they don't,
then we'll chat a second.
So, the question is, could I do this
same thing with use effect basically?
The answer is,
you could like basically move this into
an asynchronous computation of this.
And then use effect to hook into that and
basically say, all right,
I'm going to render this component once,
and
then I'm going to schedule an effect to
run to go calculate the Fibonacci of 40.
And then when that comes back,
I'm going to re render that.
And then I'm going to have a ray there to
say like okay, only change, only scheduled
as to rerun again, that's actually
probably even better than what's going on
here because this gets hung up every
single time that I click plus here, right?
And if I did that with an effect that
you actually wouldn't hang the UI there.
So, you could do it that way, if you were,
okay, going into like an asynchronous
pattern for this,
that is not always going to be possible.
I do not think.
>> Can you use the useMemo for
like if you have an API call in here in
the same function in the same component,
but you also have like something that
changes colors that affects the state.
So, three renders it but hipness you do
not necessarily want to recall the API.
It is a good question.
So, if you have an API.
Could you use useMemo to basically
not call the API every single time
that something renders in that particular
case you should use an effect,
use effect is specifically catered for
that use case.
I'm not gonna say you couldn't figure out
how to make this work with useMemo but
it would be really strange,
not something you can use a lot.
In fact, in my years of writing react I
don't think I've actually professionally
needed to use memo.
I just did like, I learned about it
to teach this class basically and
haven't really used much sense